# Computer Science

These questions have been a common and consistent occurrence as shared by multiple users. They are almost a must-know and if you do not have sufficient time to prepare for the interview, you should focus on these questions and topics.

## Online Assessment, Leetcode and Live Coding Questions

1. [Two Sum + Two Sum with duplicates](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/)
2. [LRU cache](https://leetcode.com/problems/lru-cache/)
3. [Merge 2 sorted lists](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-two-sorted-lists/)
4. [K sorted list](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-k-sorted-lists/)
5. [Design HashMap](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hashmap/)
6. [Design Set](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hashset/)
7. [Design Circle deque](https://leetcode.com/problems/design-circular-deque/)
8. [Reverse linked list](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-linked-list/)
9. [Find the k-th largest/smallest value in an array](https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-largest-element-in-an-array/)

## Networking and Web Security

1. [IP](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zos/2.2.0?topic=internets-tcpip-tcp-udp-ip-protocols)

- In terms of the OSI model, Internet Protocol (IP) is a network-layer protocol. It provides a datagram service between applications, supporting both TCP and UDP.

2. [TCP, UDP](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/differences-between-tcp-and-udp/)

- In terms of the OSI model, Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a transport-layer protocol. It provides a reliable virtual-circuit connection between applications; that is, a connection is established before data transmission begins. Data is sent without errors or duplication and is received in the same order as it is sent. No boundaries are imposed on the data; TCP treats the data as a stream of bytes.
- User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is also a transport-layer protocol and is an alternative to TCP. It provides an unreliable datagram connection between applications. Data is transmitted link by link; there is no end-to-end connection. The service provides no guarantees. Data can be lost or duplicated, and datagrams can arrive out of order.

3. [3-way handshake](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tcp-3-way-handshake-process/)

- Step 1 (SYN): In the first step, the client wants to establish a connection with a server, so it sends a segment with SYN(Synchronize Sequence Number) which informs the server that the client is likely to start communication and with what sequence number it starts segments with
- Step 2 (SYN + ACK): Server responds to the client request with SYN-ACK signal bits set. Acknowledgement(ACK) signifies the response of the segment it received and SYN signifies with what sequence number it is likely to start the segments with
- Step 3 (ACK): In the final part client acknowledges the response of the server and they both establish a reliable connection with which they will start the actual data transfer

4. [4-way](https://www.wifi-professionals.com/2019/01/4-way-handshake)
   - The 4-way handshake is the process of exchanging 4 messages between an access point (authenticator) and the client device (supplicant) to generate some encryption keys which can be used to encrypt actual data sent over Wireless medium. These keys which are generated through 4-way handshake are generated by some source key material.
5. [HTTP, HTTPS](https://www.globalsign.com/en/blog/the-difference-between-http-and-https)
   - HTTP: No Data Encryption Implemented. Every URL link that begins with HTTP uses a basic type of “hypertext transfer protocol”. Created by Tim Berners-Lee back in the early 1990’s, when the Internet was still in its infancy, this network protocol standard is what allows web browsers and servers to communicate through the exchange of data.
   - HTTPS: Encrypted Connections. HTTPS is not the opposite of HTTP, but its younger cousin. The two are essentially the same, in that both of them refer to the same “hypertext transfer protocol” that enables requested web data to be presented on your screen. But, HTTPS is still slightly different, more advanced, and much more secure.
6. [DNS - How does it work?](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/what-is-dns/)
   - DNS, or the Domain Name System, translates human readable domain names (for example, www.amazon.com) to machine readable IP addresses (for example, 192.0.2.44).
7. [What happens when you click on a URL in your browser](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/what-happens-when-you-hit-url-in-your-browser/)
   - DNS lookup to find IP address. After hitting the URL, the first thing that needs to happen is to resolve IP address associated with the domain name. DNS helps in resolving this. DNS is like a phone book and helps us to provide the IP address that is associated with the domain name just like our phone book gives a mobile number which is associated with the person’s name.

## Operating Systems

1. [Thread and processes](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-process-and-thread/)
   - Process are basically the programs which are dispatched from the ready state and are scheduled in the CPU for execution. PCB(Process Control Block) holds the concept of process. A process can create other processes which are known as Child Processes. The process takes more time to terminate and it is isolated means it does not share the memory with any other process. The process can have the following states like new, ready, running, waiting, terminated, suspended.
   - Thread is the segment of a process means a process can have multiple threads and these multiple threads are contained within a process. A thread has three states: Running, Ready, and Blocked. Thread takes less time to terminate as compared to process but unlike process threads do not isolate.

## System Design

1. [API Design](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/api/what-is-api-design)
   - API design refers to the process of developing application programming interfaces (APIs) that expose data and application functionality for use by developers and users. APIs are important to modern organizations, adding new capabilities to everything from their operations and products to their partnership strategies. It’s no longer a stretch to say that most organizations don’t ask whether to engage in API programs, but how to do so.
2. [URL shorteners](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URL_shortening)
   - URL shortening is a technique on the World Wide Web in which a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) may be made substantially shorter and still direct to the required page.

## Backend Engineer Questions

1. What Is CAP Theorem?

- The CAP Theorem states that it is not possible for a distributed computer system to simultaneously provide all three of the following guarantees:
  - Consistency (all nodes see the same data even at the same time with concurrent updates )
  - Availability (a guarantee that every request receives a response about whether it was successful or failed)
  - Partition tolerance (the system continues to operate despite arbitrary message loss or failure of part of the system)

2. What REST stands for?

- REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer. REST is web standards based architecture and uses HTTP Protocol for data communication. It revolves around resource where every component is a resource and a resource is accessed by a common interface using HTTP standard methods.

3. What are NoSQL databases? What are the different types of NoSQL databases?
   - A NoSQL database provides a mechanism for storage and retrieval of data that is modeled in means other than the tabular relations used in relational databases (like SQL, Oracle, etc.).
4. What do you understand by NoSQL databases? Explain.
   - At the present time, the internet is loaded with big data, big users, big complexity etc. and also becoming more complex day by day. NoSQL is answer of all these problems; It is not a traditional database management system, not even a relational database management system (RDBMS). NoSQL stands for “Not Only SQL”. NoSQL is a type of database that can handle and sort all type of unstructured, messy and complicated data. It is just a new way to think about the database.
5. What is SQL injection?
   - Injection attacks stem from a lack of strict separation between program instructions (i.e., code) and user-provided (or external) input. This allows an attacker to inject malicious code into a data snippet.
6. What is meant by Continuous Integration?
   - Continuous Integration (CI) is a development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository several times a day. Each check-in is then verified by an automated build, allowing teams to detect problems early.
7. Compare SQL databases and MongoDB at a high level
   - SQL databases store data in form of tables, rows, columns and records. This data is stored in a pre-defined data model which is not very much flexible for today's real-world highly growing applications. MongoDB in contrast uses a flexible structure which can be easily modified and extended.
8. Difference between acceptance test and functional test?
   - Functional testing: This is a verification activity; did we build a correctly working product? Does the software meet the business requirements? A functional test verifies that the product actually works as you (the developer) think it does.
   - Acceptance testing: This is a validation activity; did we build the right thing? Is this what the customer really needs? Acceptance tests verify the product actually solves the problem it was made to solve. This can best be done by the user (customer), for instance performing his/her tasks that the software assists with.
9. How to mitigate the SQL Injection risks?
   - Prepared Statements with Parameterized Queries: Always ensure that your SQL interpreter always able to differentiate between code and data. Never use dynamic queries which fail to find the difference between code and data. Instead, use static SQL query and then pass in the external input as a parameter to query. Use of Prepared Statements (with Parameterized Queries) force developer to first define all the SQL code, and then pass in each parameter to the query later.
   - Use of Stored Procedures: Stored Procedure is like a function in C where database administrator call it whenever he/she need it. It is not completely mitigated SQL injection but definitely helps in reducing risks of SQL injection by avoiding dynamic SQL generation inside.
   - White List Input Validation: Always use white list input validation and allow only preapproved input by the developer. Never use blacklist approach as it is less secure than whitelist approach.
   - Escaping All User Supplied Input
   - Enforcing Least Privilege
10. Name some performance testing steps

- Identify the testing environment, Identify performance metrics, Plan and design performance tests, Configure the test environment, Implement your test design, Execute tests, Analyze, report, retest

11. What are some advantages of using Go?

- Go is an attempt to introduce a new, concurrent, garbage-collected language with fast compilation.
- It is possible to compile a large Go program in a few seconds on a single computer.
- Go provides a model for software construction that makes dependency analysis easy and avoids much of the overhead of C-style include files and libraries.
- Go's type system has no hierarchy, so no time is spent defining the relationships between types. Also, although Go has static types, the language attempts to make types feel lighter weight than in typical OO languages.
- Go is fully garbage-collected and provides fundamental support for concurrent execution and communication.
- By its design, Go proposes an approach for the construction of system software on multicore machines.

12. What are the advantages of Web Services?

- Interoperability: Web services are accessible over network and runs on HTTP/SOAP protocol and uses XML/JSON to transport data, hence it can be developed in any programming language. Web service can be written in java programming and client can be PHP and vice versa.
- Reusability: One web service can be used by many client applications at the same time.
- Loose Coupling: Web services client code is totally independent with server code, so we have achieved loose coupling in our application.
- Easy to deploy and integrate, just like web applications.
- Multiple service versions can be running at same time.

13. What are the benefits of using Go programming?

- Support for environment adopting patterns similar to dynamic languages. For example type inference (x := 0 is valid declaration of a variable x of type int).
- Compilation time is fast.
- In built concurrency support: light-weight processes (via goroutines), channels, select statement.
- Conciseness, Simplicity, and Safety.
- Support for Interfaces and Type embedding.
- The go compiler supports static linking. All the go code can be statically linked into one big fat binary and it can be deployed in cloud servers easily without worrying about dependencies.

14. What does Containerization mean?

- Containerisation is a type of virtualization strategy that emerged as an alternative to traditional hypervisor-based virtualization.

15. Why Would You Opt For Microservices Architecture?

- Microservices can adapt easily to other frameworks or technologies.
- Failure of a single process does not affect the entire system.
- Provides support to big enterprises as well as small teams.
- Can be deployed independently and in relatively less time.

16. Name some Performance Testing best practices

- Test as early as possible in development.
- Conduct multiple performance tests to ensure consistent findings and determine metrics averages.
- Test the individual software units separately as well as together
- Baseline measurements provide a starting point for determining success or failure
- Performance tests are best conducted in test environments that are as close to the production systems as possible
- Isolate the performance test environment from the environment used for quality assurance testing
- Keep the test environment as consistent as possible
- Calculating averages will deliver actionable metrics. There is value in tracking outliers also. Those extreme measurements could reveal possible failures.

17. What Do You Mean By High Availability (HA)?

- Availability means the ability of the application user to access the system, If a user cannot access the application, it is assumed unavailable. High Availability means the application will be available, without interruption. Using redundant server nodes with clustering is a common way to achieve higher level of availability in web applications.

18. What Is ACID Property Of A System?

- Atomicity - This property guarantees that if one part of the transaction fails, the entire transaction will fail, and the database state will be left unchanged.
- Consistency - This property ensures that any transaction will bring the database from one valid state to another.
- Isolation - This property ensures that the concurrent execution of transactions results in a system state that would be obtained if transactions were executed serially.
- Durable - means that once a transaction has been committed, it will remain so, even in the event of power loss.

19. What Is Sticky Session Load Balancing? What Do You Mean By "Session Affinity"?

- Sticky session or a session affinity technique is another popular load balancing technique that requires a user session to be always served by an allocated machine.

20. What are disadvantages of REST web services?

- Since there is no contract defined between service and client, it has to be communicated through other means such as documentation or emails.
- Since it works on HTTP, there can’t be asynchronous calls.
- Sessions can’t be maintained.
